Short Answer Questions: Fundamentals

Set of instructions that can be compiled or assembled into an executable computer program.

Computers are only as smart as the programs humans create for them to run.

The purpose of programming languages are to serve as a go-between that is understandable by both computer and human.
Python, C++, and Javascript are 3 examples of programming languages. There are so many programming languages because software developers want flexibility in writing programs and because different programming languages solve different needs/problems.

A variable is an container in which a developer can temporarily store a value. They are useful because it gives a developer flexibility to store many and various data values and the ability to change those values at will.

A single = sign means to set a value on the right to a variable or object on the left. Whereas a == sign will loosely compare a value to another value after converting each value to a common type.

A == sign will loosely compare a value to another value after converting each value to a common type. Whereas a === will strictly compare two values, no converting to a a common type.

A developer console exists for a developer to check warning and error messages about his/her code, and for testing or debugging outputs of certain types of code.

A conditional statement will test whether a certain bit of code is true or false. A example of this would be an IF statement where a condition is set such as (5 > 3), if that condition evaluates true, then the program will execute a set of code between { }. If the condition evaluates false, the code in the { } will not be run.

FOR and WHILE loops are efficient way for checking a data set/structure repeatedly based on defined parameters and conditions.

A FOR loop is useful for evaluating a data set a set or known number of times. A WHILE loop is useful for evaluating a data set an unknown amount of times or as long as a condition is true.

A function is a an object where a developer can define a set of instructions/code to perform a task. This function can take inputs (parameters) and output (return) values. A function gives the developer the ability to call or return the code of a function at different times and places in their program.

A function can return one value. Though that one value could be an a data structure of some kind with multiple value contained therein. I understand that general clean code guidelines will limit a function to 4 or less input parameters, though it is possible for a function to handle more that 4.

A array is a data structure that holds a number of values and values of varying data types. I the believe theoretical limit of array values based on ECMA5 is approximately 4.29 billion elements.Though possible, this number seems unreasonable for practical use.

A T-diagram is a tool a developer can use to keep track of variables and their values as one works through an algorithm or program. Generally a T-diagram is helpful for doing just that, namely keeping track of variables and values.

The two ways to comment in Javascript are a // for a single line of comment and /* and */ for multiple lines of comment.
